Developement plan for Starcraft browser game

To do list:

Functionality:

Urgent:

    Try missile radian fix on units
    pause game in sandbox
    fix autoturret (so it doesn't change target to closest)
    Minimap
    add structure hp bar
    add structure repair option
    More Units (Hellbat, vulture, hydralisk first, infested terran marine)
    Structures should be able to be destroyed while building
    More canvas (GroundEffectsCanvas(For ground level explosions), FlyingUnitShadowCanvas (For flying unit shadows),
        FlyingUnitCanvas (for flying units), EffectsCanvas (for upper level effects such as bansheeflybys)
        ObjectInfoCanvas (for production and health bars etc.))
        Move health and productionbars etc. to ObjectInfoCanvas.
    Upgrades for engi-bay
    redesign objects with new design style (round and pixelwide black edge)

Can wait:
    Controlpanel button, so player know that it exists
    Win and loose conditions
    Optimisations (quad-tree for collision detection)
        Attack animation

Far in future:
    log in with backend
    Campaign



Art:
    Hydralisk
    Firebat
    Vulture
    Tank ( Sieged / Unsieged ) Maybe animation inbetween



Known bugs:
    Collisiondetection isn't perfect.
    Frontmenu loads faster than objects sometimes, resulting in game = undefined on init.
    health bars of infested terrans get long at death time and doesnt get deleted
    Red autoturret doesnt die right
    fix clear units from field function







Gameplay:

Two teams, top and bottom, battle it out across an open field. Units from the Starcraft universe are used as mediums.
Both teams start with one main building and 6 (subject to change) workers. If this main building dies, the team looses.
Besides the main building is minerals and gas. Amount of these will change per mission.
10 building spots (subject to change) are available for constructing unit-producing, supply and tech buildings.
Three (maybe more) overlapping lanes exist. The player decide which lane units are currently being sent to.
The units are sent to a random position at the start of the chosen lane.

When units meet in midfield they move towards each other if they are in aggression range and attack each other when in attack range (see concept art).
When units reach opposing players buildings, they start attack these untill these are destroyed or more enemy units arrive. When opposing buildings inside the aggression range are cleared away, units go on
to the main building. Once this dies, the game ends.

Upgrades are instantly applied to all relevant units when done. Abilities can be cast at the position of the mouse or globally, if applicable.

Controls:
    with tab, the player can go to a controlpanel, wherefrom he can choose behaviour for his units.

This makes for a game where enemy AoE can be used widely, but the player can counter it to a degree.










Campaign:

Overlying story line brainstorm:



Characters:
    Player
        Young graduate from command school with exemplary grades. Has never seen battle. Never talks. Graduated shortly after the events of
        Heart of the Swarm. Answers to [newly established council]

    Mentor
        Old veteran who has never had the education necessary to rise in rank but has many years of combat experience against the three races.
        Calls the player kid/son in the start. slightly cynical, he is a man who has seen too much. He doesn't really care about the powerstruggles
        and politics of the koprulu sector. He cares about protecting the innocents. On the bottom, a good man. Closeminded and paranoid when it comes
        to communicating with the zerg and protoss. The reason for his paranoia is that he fought in the Brood Wars, where the shifting alliances of
        races and factions were hard to keep track of for the uninformed officers of the Dominion.

    Council
        A newly established council, concerned with governing the terrans after Mengsk fall.
        This council is more or less friendly towards Jim Raynor. He is listened to and regarded as a leader of terran military.

    Banshee Pilot
        Female. A true badass that shows up now and then to kick ass and say badass things. Head of a banshee wing that can airstrike an area.

    Swarm Queen
        A swarm queen, made by Kerrigan as a zerg lieutanent, capable of conscious thought. Has orders from Kerrigan, who has left the Koprulu sector in order to
        hunt down the Xel'Naga, to help Jim Raynor and the ones specified by him, of which the player is one, but only these. Rescues the player in mission
        4 or 5 when he is about to be overrun by enemy zerg. Her and the Mentor bickers like an old couple, because of his prejudices.
        Could be the real protagonist. The story could be about how she helps the terrans and gets only animosity in return.

    Zerg Cerebrate
        The Big Bad. A zerg cerebrate, who was released from the control of the overmind after the Aiur campaign. Instead of joining with the other
        cerebrates to make a new overmind at the start of the brood wars, he hid himself on a remote moon. Now he has come out of hiding, sensing that
        the Queen of Blades has left the sector. Hopes to take over the sector in abscence of worthy rivals and eventually amass enough power
        to challenge Kerrigan, should she return. It is up to the player and allies to stop him.

Mission specifics

Mission 1:

The player should be lead through the commands and basic controls in a safe enviroment, be introduced to the mentor character and be introduced
to the zerg.

1: The player lands on [world], getting ready to begin basic command training. [instructor/mentor figure] introduces himself.
2: The player has to build a number of scvs, supply depots and a barracks before the mission proceeds.
3: A mechanized training opponent is introduced. The player is instructed to build some number of marines to combat the training drones.
4: When the training drones and the training drone production structure has been destroyed by the player, a larger drone factory is dropped
   a little away from the player. This drone factory starts accumulating drones. Before the wave is sent however, a zerg spore lands behind
   the drone factory. The drones are sent towards this to combat the new threat. The player and the drones are now allied. The player is instructed
   to build autoturret defenses and marines by the fuming mentor character.
5: The zerg vanquishes the drones after some time and heads for the player. The player has to handle a few easy waves.
6: An overwhelming amount of Zerg spawn suddenly. The mentor prepares the player for the inevitable death ("I am sorry, kid/son. Sometimes the
   only thing you can do is die"), while the zerg advance.
7: A transmission is received from [Badass Banshee pilot]. She says badass things. The banshee wing takes out the zerg with a concentrated airstrike.
8: The player is instructed to take out the spore. A few zerg are still spawned, but they are easily handled. When the spore dies, the mission ends.

Mission 2:










Concept Art:

See concept art png







Components and knowledge needed:

Must have:
    Objects
        Units
            Terran
                SCV
                Marine (Done)
                Firebat
                    Cone attack
                Medic
                    Behaviour: Heals friendly infantry
                Ghost
                    Behaviour: Snipes opposing casters or something
                Vulture
                    Behaviour: Kites opponents
                Siegetank
                    Ability: Siege, unsiege
                Goliath
                    Long anti air
                Wraith
                (Science Vessel. Might be hard to do)
                Battlecruiser
            Zerg
                Drone (Maybe)
                Zergling (Two spawned at once maybe) (Done)
                Hydralisk
                Impaler (Lurker but with longrange single target anti armor attack).
                Ultralisk
                Mutalisk
                Scourge
                Guardian

        Buildings
            Terran
                Command center (Main building) (Done)
                    Units: SCV
                    Ability: Scan (Used to see burrowed Impalers)
                Barracks
                    Units: Marine, Firebat, Medic, Ghost
                Factory
                    Requires Barracks
                    Units: Vulture, Siegetank, Goliath
                Starport
                    Requires Factory
                    Units: Wraith, Sci Vessel, Battle Cruiser
                Supply Depot
                    - Upgrades to Expanded Supply Depot
                Engineering Bay
                    - Allows Firebats to be build from barracks
                    Upgrades: Research Medic, infantry attack, infantry armor, Marine range, Stimpacks, healing efficiency, blueflame, building armor.
                Armory
                    Requires Engineering Bay
                    - allows goliaths to be build from factory
                    Upgrades: Vehicle and air attack, vehicle and air armor
                Ghost
                Autoturret
                    Upgrades to Overloaded Autoturret
            Zerg
                Main hatch
                    Units: Drone
                    Upgrades to Lair
                        Requires Spawningpool
                        Allows upgrade to Impaler lair from Hydralisk Den
                        Allows Spire
                        Upgrades to Hive
                            Allows Ultralisk Cavern and Greater Spire
                Birthing queen
                    Builds zerg units
                Spawningpool
                    Allows Zerglings to be build
                    Upgrades: Zergling speed, Adrenal Glands (requires Hive)
                Hydralisk Den
                    Requires Spawningpool
                    Upgrade: Hydralisk Range
                    - Upgrades to Impaler lair
                        Upgrade Impaler Antiarmor damage
                Ultralisk Cavern
                    Units: Ultralisk
                    Upgrade Ultralisk armor +2 and Ultralisk speed
                Spire
                    Units: Mutalisk, Scourge
                    Upgrades: Air attack, air armor
                    - Upgrades to Greater Spire
                        Units: Guardian
                Bile launcher: Ground and attack
                    Upgrades to Evolved Bile Launcher
        Terrain and resources
            Minerals
            Gas

    User interface
        First map
            Main building spot
            Minerals
            Gas
            10 Building spots
            Lanes
            Hud

Nice to have

    Objects
        Units
            Protoss units
            neutral aggressive creeps
            Hero units
        Buildings
            Protoss buildings
            Xel'naga buildings
            Neutral aggressive buildings
            Neutral capturable buildings
        Terrain and resources
            neutral barriers
            Power ups
            Gold minerals